#summary Describes the global roadmap of the EpiT{a,ech} schools audio laboratory project.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =


= Roadmap =

==Administrative==
===ForeWord===
  * Definition of the projects. *done*
  * Prepare a presentation.  *done*
  * Prepare a fancy presentation. *hum*
  * Get a date with school's head.  *done*

==Audio lab==
===0.2===
*Lab*
  * Get a server from school.
  * Make a basic pro-lv2 linux audio website, could be a Wiki for the moment.
  * Make an open source audio technology related blog.
  * Define precisely ODL protocol : OSC Discovery & Learn.

*Code*
_Premiere version utilisable._
  * basic soulrider/tronsonator/butinator lv2 plugins to create a djing software suite
    * soulrider: open a file, cue/play/pause/pitch (with a gui) *open*
    * tronsonator: 4 channels mixer with GUI that use libthc
    * butinator: allow drag'n'drop of mp3 on soulrider (no playlist feature available) *open*
  * basic promethee live sampler. *open*
  * LV2sdk : initially only a sdk for plugins, with a simple doxygen.
  * Possibly improve Trilobxxx sequencers.
  * Avahi liblo patch in upstream. *open*
 
===0.4===
*Lab*
  * Publish an ODL paper/rfc.
  * First major conf at Epita/Epitech.

*Code*
  * Skinnable & flexible widget library. *open*
  * New kbdz version with liblo-avahi support, ODL support.
  * ingen/frontend :
    * find a name for the front-end
    * support lv2gtk2gui/midi/instrument extension in ingen
    * allow to connect and to add plugins
    * embeded lv2 gui
    * basic support for kbdz.

===0.6===
*Lab*

*Code*

===0.8===
*Lab*

*Code*

===1.0===
*Lab*
  * Request real lab.
*Code*
  * Start over RimX development.


